add v8.2.0 release notes (#17907)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.2.0.md

    * `JSON_ARRAY_APPEND()`
    * `JSON_MERGE_PATCH()`
    * `JSON_REPLACE()`

  更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md)。

* TiDB 支持并行排序功能 [#49217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/49217) [#50746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50746) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1665-->

    在 v8.2.0 版本之前，TiDB 进行排序计算时只能以非并行的方式进行处理，当需要对大量数据进行排序时，查询性能受到影响。

    在 v8.2.0 版本中，TiDB 支持并行排序功能，所有的排序计算性能都将得到提升。该功能不需要单独开启，TiDB 将根据变量 [`tidb_executor_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_executor_concurrency-从-v50-版本开始引入) 的设定，确定使用并行方式或非并行方式进行排序。

* TiDB 的并发 HashAgg 算法支持数据落盘（GA）[#35637](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35637) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)  **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1842-->

    在 v8.0.0 中，TiDB 以实验特性发布了并发 HashAgg 算法支持数据落盘功能。

    在 v8.2.0 中，TiDB 正式发布该功能。TiDB 在使用并发 HashAgg 算法时，将根据内存使用情况自动触发数据落盘，从而兼顾性能和数据处理量。该功能默认打开，变量 `tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill` 将被废弃。

* 提升备份百万表场景的备份稳定性以及性能。解决备份过程中因为各种原因(节点重启/扩容/网络问题)带来的长尾问题。 [#52534](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52534) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@qiancai** <!--1844-->

### Reliability

> * 统计信息加载效率提升 10 倍 [#52831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52831) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@hfxsdt** <!--1754-->
> 
>     SaaS 或 PaaS 类业务应用中可能存在大量的数据表，这会拖慢了初始统计信息加载的速度，也会降低运行时加载的成功率。TiDB 的启动时间，以及执行计划的准确性都相应会受到影响。在 v8.2.0 中，我们从并发模型，内存分配方式等多个角度了优化统计信息的加载过程，降低延迟，提升吞吐，避免由于统计信息加载问题造成的大规模性能回退，进一步提升了数据库的稳定性。
> 
>     新增支持自适应的并行加载。默认情况下，配置项[`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-从-v540-版本开始引入)的值为 `0`，统计信息加载的并行度会根据硬件规格自动选择。 
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-从-v540-版本开始引入)。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improve statistics loading efficiency by up to 10 times [#52831](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52831) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1754-->

    SaaS or PaaS applications can have a large number of data tables, which not only slow down the loading speed of the initial statistics, but also reduce the success rate of the runtime loading. The startup time of TiDB and the accuracy of the execution plan can be affected. In v8.2.0, TiDB optimizes the process of loading statistics from multiple perspectives, such as concurrency model and memory allocation, to reduce latency, improve throughput, and avoid large-scale performance fallback due to the problem of loading statistics, thus further improving the stability of the database.

    Adaptive concurrent loading is now supported. By default, the configuration item [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) is set to a `0`, and the concurrency of statistics loading is automatically selected based on the hardware specification. 

   For more information, see [documentation](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540).
```

### Availability

* TiProxy 支持多种负载均衡策略 [#465](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/465) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox)  **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1777-->

    TiProxy 是 TiDB 的官方代理组件，位于客户端和 TiDB server 之间，为 TiDB 集群提供负载均衡、连接保持功能。在 v8.2.0 之前，TiProxy 默认使用 v1.0.0 版本，只能基于状态和连接数进行负载均衡。
    在 v8.2.0 中，TiProxy 默认使用 v1.1.0 版本，引入了多种负载均衡策略，除了状态和连接数，还可以根据健康度、资源、地理位置等信息，对 TiDB 集群的连接进行动态负载均衡调度，使整个 TiDB 集群更加稳定。

    TiProxy 的负载均衡策略可以通过配置项进行配置，具体策略包括：
    * `resource`: 资源优先策略，优先级顺序依次为基于状态、健康度、内存、CPU、地理位置、连接数的负载均衡。
    * `location`: 地理优先策略，优先级顺序依次为基于状态、地理位置、健康度、内存、CPU、连接数的负载均衡。
    * `connection`: 最小连接数策略，优先级顺序依次为基于状态、连接数的负载均衡。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiproxy/tiproxy-load-balance.md)。

### SQL

> * TiDB 支持 JSON Schema Validation 函数 [#52780](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/52780) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1840-->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB 支持 JSON Schema Validation 函数 [#52779](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52779) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1840-->
```

>     在 v8.2.0 版本之前，用户需要依赖外部工具或自定义验证逻辑进行 JSON 数据验证，增加了开发和维护的复杂度，降低了开发效率。 引入该功能后，允许用户在 TiDB 中直接验证 JSON 数据的有效性，提高数据的完整性和一致性，提升了用户的开发效率。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before v8.2.0, you need to rely on external tools or customized validation logic for JSON data validation, which increases the complexity of development and maintenance, and reduces development efficiency. Starting from v8.2.0, the `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` function is introduced, which allows you to verify the validity of JSON data directly in TiDB, improving the integrity and consistency of the data, and increasing the development efficiency.

    For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/json-functions.md#validation-functions).
```

### DB operations

* TiUP 支持部署 PD 微服务 [#5766](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5766) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) **tw@qiancai** <!--1841-->

   通过将 PD 拆分成多个单独的服务，独立部署进行管理，可以更好地控制资源的使用和隔离，减少不同服务相互之间的影响。从 v8.2.0 开始，TiUP 支持将 PD 以微服务的模式进行部署，用户可以将 TSO 微服务和 Scheduling 微服务，单独进行部署，实现资源隔离以及快速迭代的目的。 

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档]()。

* 为切换资源组的操作增加权限控制 [#issue号](链接) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@lilin90** <!--1740-->

    TiDB 允许用户利用命令 [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) 或 Hint [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) 切换到其他资源组，这可能会造成部分数据库用户对资源组的滥用。TiDB v8.2.0 增加了对资源组切换行为的管控，只有被授予动态权限 `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` 或者 `RESOURCE_GROUP_USER` 的数据库用户，才能切换到其他资源组，加强对系统资源的保护。

    为了维持兼容性，从旧版本升级的集群维持原行为不变。通过设置新增变量 [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md) 为 `ON` ，开启上述的增强权限控制。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tidb-resource-control.md#绑定资源组)。

### Observability

> * 记录执行计划没有被缓存的原因 [#issue号](链接) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsdt** <!--1819-->

Author: ```suggestion
* 记录执行计划没有被缓存的原因 [#issue号](链接) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1819-->
```

    在 v8.0.0 版本，TiDB 增强了日志脱敏功能，可以控制是否对日志信息进行脱敏，以实现在不同场景下安全使用 TiDB 日志，提升了使用日志脱敏能力的安全性和灵活性。在 v8.2.0 版本中，TiFlash 进行了类似的日志脱敏功能增强。要使用此功能，需要将 tiflash-server 中 `security.redact_info_log` 配置项的值设为 `MARKER`。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#配置文件-tiflashtoml)。

### Data migration

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* TiDB Lightning，从 v8.2.0 开始当用户设置 strict-format = true，来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需要显式指定行结束符 terminator 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。
* Import Into SQL 语法，从 v8.2.0 开始，当用户导入 CSV 文件，且指定 split 参数来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需显式指定行结束符 LINES_TERMINATED_BY 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。

* 行为变更 2

### MySQL compatibility

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

> | 变量名  | 修改类型（包括新增/修改/删除）    | 描述 |
> |--------|------------------------------|------|
> | [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | 修改 | 自 v8.2.0，默认不保存历史统计信息，避免潜在的稳定性问题 **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
> | [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-从-v720-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 默认设置下，TiDB 不会收集类型为 `mediumtext` 和 `longtext` 的列，避免潜在的 OOM 风险。**tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-从-v760-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 从 v8.2.0 开始，最小值为从 `1` 改为 `0`。当设置为 `0` 时，TiDB 会根据集群规模自适应并发度。**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
| [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-从-v720-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 从 v8.2.0 开始，默认设置下，TiDB 不会收集类型为 `mediumtext` 和 `longtext` 的列，避免潜在的 OOM 风险。**tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | 修改 | 从 v8.2.0 开始，默认值改为 `OFF`，即关闭历史统计信息，避免潜在的稳定性问题。 **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-从-v650-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 从 v8.2.0 开始，最小值为从 `1` 改为 `0`。当设置为 `0` 时，TiDB 会根据集群规模自适应并发度。**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
```

|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-从-v540-版本开始引入) | 修改 | 默认值从 `5` 修改为 `0`，最小值从 `1` 修改为 `0`。`0` 为自动模式，根据服务器情况，自动调节并发度。 |

```

### System tables

### Other changes

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

* 从 v8.0.0 开始，变量 [`tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_concurrent_hashagg_spill-从-v800-版本开始引入) 被废弃。
* 从 v8.0.0 开始，BR 快照恢复参数 [`concurrency`](/use-br-command-line-tool#常用选项) 被废弃。 **tw@qiancai** <!--1850-->
* 从 v8.0.0 开始，BR 快照恢复参数 [`granularity`](/br-snapshot-guide#快照恢复的性能与影响) 被废弃。**tw@qiancai** <!--1850-->

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - 优化客户端读取数据超时无法终止查询的问题 [#44009](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/44009) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)  **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1636-->
    - 优化对大数据量的表进行简单查询的性能 [#53850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53850) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)  **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1561-->

>     - 聚合的结果集能够作为 Index Join 的内表 [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsdt** <!--1510-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to be matched to IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through the indices [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1510-->
```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#配置文件-tiflashtoml)。

### Data migration

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* TiDB Lightning，从 v8.2.0 开始当用户设置 strict-format = true，来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需要显式指定行结束符 terminator 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。
* Import Into SQL 语法，从 v8.2.0 开始，当用户导入 CSV 文件，且指定 split 参数来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需显式指定行结束符 LINES_TERMINATED_BY 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。

* 行为变更 2

### MySQL compatibility

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760) | Modified  |  Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adapts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
> | [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Modified  | Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB does not collect columns of `mediumtext` and `longtext` types by default to avoid potential OOM risks. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
> | [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | Modified   |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF`, which turns off historical statistics to avoid potential stability issues. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
> | [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adapts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760) | Modified  |  Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
| [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Modified  | Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB does not collect columns of `mediumtext` and `longtext` types by default to avoid potential OOM risks. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | Modified   |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF`, which turns off historical statistics to avoid potential stability issues. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
```

summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.2.0.
---

# TiDB 8.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/tiproxy-load-balance">TiProxy 支持多种负载均衡策略<!--tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
    <td>在新版本中，TiProxy 能够从多个维度（状态，连接数，健康度、内存、CPU、地理位置）对 TiDB 节点进行评估和排序，根据用户设置的目标策略动态选择合适的 TiDB 节点，发送相应的数据库操作。从而优化 TiDB 节点的整体资源使用率，提升集群性能和吞吐。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-从-v800-版本开始引入">并行 HashAgg 算法支持数据落盘成为正式功能 (GA)<!--tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
    <td>HashAgg 是 TiDB 上最常见的聚合算子，用来快速聚合部分相同字段的行数据，并行 HashAgg 能够进一步提升处理速度。从 v8.0.0 开始，当内存资源不足时，并行的 HashAgg 能够将临时排序数据落盘，避免由于过渡内存使用造成潜在 OOM 风险。在提升性能的同时，也保护了节点的稳定性。这个能力在 v8.2.0 成为正式功能，用户可以安全地设置其并发度。</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/tidb-configuration-file#stats-load-concurrency-从-v540-版本开始引入">统计信息加载效率提升 10 倍)<!--tw@hfxsd--></td>
>     <td>对于拥有大量表和分区的集群（比如 SaaS 或 PaaS 服务），统计信息加载效率的提升能够解决 TiDB 实例启动缓慢，减少由于统计信息加载失败造成的性能回退，提升集群的稳定性。</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/tidb-configuration-file#stats-load-concurrency-从-v540-版本开始引入">Improve statistics loading efficiency by up to 10 times<!--tw@hfxsd--></td>
    <td>For clusters with a large number of tables and partitions, such as SaaS or PaaS services, improvement in statistics loading efficiency can solve the problem of slow startup of TiDB instances. This improvement reduces performance rollbacks caused by statistics loading failures and improves cluster stability.</td>
```

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/tidb-resource-control.md#绑定资源组)。

### Observability

* 记录执行计划没有被缓存的原因 [#issue号](链接) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1819-->

    在一些场景下，用户希望多数执行计划能够被缓存，以节省执行开销，并降低延迟。目前执行计划缓存对 SQL 有一定限制，部分形态 SQL 的执行计划无法被缓存，但是用户很难识别出无法被缓存的 SQL 以及对应的原因。因此，在新版本中，我们向系统表 [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) 中增加了新的列，解释计划无法被缓存的原因，协助用户做性能调优。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/statement-summary-tables.md#表的字段介绍)。

### Security

* Enhance TiFlash log desensitization [#8977](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8977) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1818-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances the log desensitization feature. You can control whether to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using log desensitization. In v8.2.0, TiFlash introduces a similar enhancement for log desensitization. To use this feature, set the TiFlash configuration item `security.redact_info_log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file).

### Data migration

> * TiCDC Syncpoints align by sync point interval [#11212](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11212) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) <!--1234-->

Author: ```suggestion
* TiCDC Syncpoints align by sync point interval [#11212](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11212) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@lilin90** <!--1869-->
```

    For more information, see [user documentation](/pd-microservices.md).

* Add privilege control of switching resource groups [#53440](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53440) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv) **tw@lilin90** <!--1740-->

    TiDB lets users switch to other resource groups using the [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) command or the [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) hint, which might lead to resource group abuse by some database users. TiDB v8.2.0 introduces privilege control of switching resource groups. Only database users granted the `RESOURCE_GROUP_ADMIN` or `RESOURCE_GROUP_USER` dynamic privilege can switch to other resource groups, enhancing the protection of system resources.

>     To maintain compatibility, the original behavior is retained when upgrading from earlier versions to v8.2.0 or later versions. To enable the enhanced privilege control, set the new variable [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) to `ON`.

Reviewer 2: @glorv PTAL. Thanks!

Reviewer 3: LGTM

    在一些场景下，用户希望多数执行计划能够被缓存，以节省执行开销，并降低延迟。目前执行计划缓存对 SQL 有一定限制，部分形态 SQL 的执行计划无法被缓存，但是用户很难识别出无法被缓存的 SQL 以及对应的原因。因此，在新版本中，我们向系统表 [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) 中增加了新的列，解释计划无法被缓存的原因，协助用户做性能调优。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/statement-summary-tables.md#表的字段介绍)。

### Security

* Enhance TiFlash log desensitization [#8977](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8977) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1818-->

    TiDB v8.0.0 enhances the log desensitization feature. You can control whether to desensitize log information to enable secure use of TiDB logs in different scenarios, enhancing the security and flexibility of using log desensitization. In v8.2.0, TiFlash introduces a similar enhancement for log desensitization. To use this feature, set the TiFlash configuration item `security.redact_info_log` to `marker`.

    For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file).

### Data migration

* Align TiCDC Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds [#11212](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11212) @[hongyunyan](https://github.com/hongyunyan) **tw@lilin90** <!--1869-->

>     Before v8.2.0, aligning TiCDC Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds was challenging. The `startTs` of the changefeed had to be carefully selected when the changefeed was created, so it would align with the Syncpoints of other changefeeds. Starting from v8.2.0, Syncpoints for a changefeed are created as a multiple of the changefeed's `sync-point-interval` configuration. This change lets you align Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds that have the same interval configured, simplifying and improving the ability to align multiple downstream clusters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before v8.2.0, aligning TiCDC Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds was challenging. The `startTs` of the changefeed had to be carefully selected when the changefeed was created, so it would align with the Syncpoints of other changefeeds. Starting from v8.2.0, Syncpoints for a changefeed are created as a multiple of the changefeed's `sync-point-interval` configuration. This change lets you align Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds that have the same `sync-point-interval` configuration, simplifying and improving the ability to align multiple downstream clusters.
```

>     Before v8.2.0, aligning TiCDC Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds was challenging. The `startTs` of the changefeed had to be carefully selected when the changefeed was created, so it would align with the Syncpoints of other changefeeds. Starting from v8.2.0, Syncpoints for a changefeed are created as a multiple of the changefeed's `sync-point-interval` configuration. This change lets you align Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds that have the same `sync-point-interval` configuration, simplifying and improving the ability to align multiple downstream clusters.

Reviewer 2: I made some minor updates. @hongyunyan Would you please take another look? Thanks!

Reviewer 4: LGTM

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800">The parallel HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill (GA)<!--tw@Oreoxmt--></td>
    <td>HashAgg is a widely used aggregation operator in TiDB for efficiently aggregating rows with the same field values. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces parallel HashAgg as an experimental feature to further enhance processing speed. When memory resources are insufficient, parallel HashAgg spills temporary sorted data to disk, avoiding potential OOM risks caused by excessive memory usage. This improves performance while maintaining node stability. In v8.2.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA), enabling you to safely configure the concurrency of parallel HashAgg.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>

>     <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/tidb-configuration-file#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540">Improve statistics loading efficiency by up to 10 times<!--tw@hfxsd--></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/tidb-configuration-file#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540">Improve statistics loading efficiency by up to 10 times</a><!--tw@hfxsd--></td>
```

    <td>For clusters with a large number of tables and partitions, such as SaaS or PaaS services, improvement in statistics loading efficiency can solve the problem of slow startup of TiDB instances. This improvement reduces performance rollbacks caused by statistics loading failures and improves cluster stability.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td><a href="">Introduce privilege control of switching resource groups<!--tw@lilin90--></td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <td><a href=""https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/tidb-resource-control#bind-resource-groups">Introduce privilege control of switching resource groups</a><!--tw@lilin90--></td>
```

| [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | Modified   |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF`, which turns off historical statistics to avoid potential stability issues. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls whether privilege control is applied to the [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) statement and the [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) optimizer hint. **tw@lilin90** <!--1740--> |
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

> ### Configuration file parameters

Author: ```suggestion
### Configuration file parameters

```

### System tables

### Other changes

- Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks.

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

* Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->

> * Starting with v8.20, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
```

| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |

### System tables

### Other changes

- Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks.

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

> * Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
> * Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
> * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether to enable the priority queue to optimize the ordering of automatic statistics collection tasks. In future versions, the priority queue will become the only way to order automatic statistics collection tasks, and the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
> * In v7.5.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable to enable TiDB to merge partition statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. In future versions, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously by default, and the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable will be deprecated.

Author: ```suggestion
The following features are deprecated starting from v8.2.0:

* Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
* Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->

The following features are planned for deprecation in future versions:

* In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether to enable the priority queue to optimize the ordering of automatic statistics collection tasks. In future versions, the priority queue will become the only way to order automatic statistics collection tasks, and the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
* In v7.5.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable to enable TiDB to merge partition statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. In future versions, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously by default, and the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable will be deprecated.
* It is planned to redesign [the auto-evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.
* The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by `conflict.threshold`, which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

* Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.
```

| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |

### System tables

### Other changes

- Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks.

## Offline package changes

## Deprecated features

> The following features are deprecated starting from v8.2.0:
> 
> * Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
> * Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
> 
> The following features are planned for deprecation in future versions:
> 
> * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether to enable the priority queue to optimize the ordering of automatic statistics collection tasks. In future versions, the priority queue will become the only way to order automatic statistics collection tasks, and the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
> * In v7.5.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable to enable TiDB to merge partition statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. In future versions, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously by default, and the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable will be deprecated.
> * It is planned to redesign [the auto-evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.
> * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by `conflict.threshold`, which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.
> 
> The following features are planned for removal in future versions:
> 
> * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

Author: ```suggestion
* The following features are deprecated starting from v8.2.0:

    * Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
    * Starting with v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->

* The following features are planned for deprecation in future versions:

    * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether to enable the priority queue to optimize the ordering of automatic statistics collection tasks. In future versions, the priority queue will become the only way to order automatic statistics collection tasks, and the [`tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_auto_analyze_priority_queue-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
    * In v7.5.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable to enable TiDB to merge partition statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. In future versions, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously by default, and the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable will be deprecated.
    * It is planned to redesign [the auto-evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.
    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by `conflict.threshold`, which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.
```

    You can configure the combination and priority of load balancing policies through the [`policy`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#policy) configuration item.

    * `resource`: the resource priority policy performs load balancing based on the following priority order: status, health, memory, CPU, location, and connection count.
    * `location`: the location priority policy performs load balancing based on the following priority order: status, location, health, memory, CPU, and connection count.
    * `connection`: the minimum connection count priority policy performs load balancing based on the following priority order: status and connection count.

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-load-balance.md).

### SQL

* TiDB supports the JSON schema validation function [#52779](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52779) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1840-->

>     Before v8.2.0, you need to rely on external tools or customized validation logic for JSON data validation, which increases the complexity of development and maintenance, and reduces development efficiency. Starting from v8.2.0, the `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` function is introduced, which allows you to verify the validity of JSON data directly in TiDB, improving the integrity and consistency of the data, and increasing the development efficiency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Before v8.2.0, you need to rely on external tools or customized validation logic for JSON data validation, which increases the complexity of development and maintenance, and reduces development efficiency. Starting from v8.2.0, the `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` function is introduced, which lets you verify the validity of JSON data directly in TiDB, improving the integrity and consistency of the data, and increasing the development efficiency.
```

    To maintain compatibility, the original behavior is retained when upgrading from earlier versions to v8.2.0 or later versions. To enable the enhanced privilege control, set the new variable [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) to `ON`.

    For more information, see [user documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#bind-resource-groups).

### Observability

* 记录执行计划没有被缓存的原因 [#issue号](链接) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1819-->

    在一些场景下，用户希望多数执行计划能够被缓存，以节省执行开销，并降低延迟。目前执行计划缓存对 SQL 有一定限制，部分形态 SQL 的执行计划无法被缓存，但是用户很难识别出无法被缓存的 SQL 以及对应的原因。因此，在新版本中，我们向系统表 [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) 中增加了新的列，解释计划无法被缓存的原因，协助用户做性能调优。

>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/statement-summary-tables.md#表的字段介绍)。

Reviewer 2: @hfxsd Please translate it into English.

> * 记录执行计划没有被缓存的原因 [#issue号](链接) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1819-->
> 
>     在一些场景下，用户希望多数执行计划能够被缓存，以节省执行开销，并降低延迟。目前执行计划缓存对 SQL 有一定限制，部分形态 SQL 的执行计划无法被缓存，但是用户很难识别出无法被缓存的 SQL 以及对应的原因。因此，在新版本中，我们向系统表 [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) 中增加了新的列，解释计划无法被缓存的原因，协助用户做性能调优。
> 
>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](/statement-summary-tables.md#表的字段介绍)。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Record the reason why the execution plan is not cached [#50618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50618) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1819-->

    In some scenarios, you might want cache most execution plans to save execution overhead and reduce latency. Currently, execution plan caching has some limitations on SQL. Execution plans of some SQL statements cannot be cached. It is difficult for users to identify the SQL that cannot be cached and the corresponding reasons. 
    
    Therefore, starting from v8.2.0, a new column has been added to the system table [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) to explain the reason why the plan cannot be cached, and to help you do performance tuning.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statement-summary-tables.md#fields-description).
```

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* TiDB Lightning，从 v8.2.0 开始当用户设置 strict-format = true，来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需要显式指定行结束符 terminator 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。
* Import Into SQL 语法，从 v8.2.0 开始，当用户导入 CSV 文件，且指定 split 参数来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需显式指定行结束符 LINES_TERMINATED_BY 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。

* 行为变更 2

### MySQL compatibility

* 兼容性 1

* 兼容性 2

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-从-v800-版本开始引入) | 废弃 | **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1842--> |

> | [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760) | Modified  |  Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760) | Modified  |  Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
```

| [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Modified  | Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB does not collect columns of `mediumtext` and `longtext` types by default to avoid potential OOM risks. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | Modified   |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF`, which turns off historical statistics to avoid potential stability issues. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_executor_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50) | Modified | Add support for setting the concurrency of the `sort` operator. |
| [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls whether privilege control is applied to the [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) statement and the [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) optimizer hint. **tw@lilin90** <!--1740--> |

> | [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, it adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
```

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - Improve the performance when retrieving data distribution information for simple queries on tables with a large amount of data [#53850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53850) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1561-->

>     - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to be matched to IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through the indices [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1510-->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to match with IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through the indices [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1510-->
```

    Before v8.2.0, aligning TiCDC Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds was challenging. The `startTs` of the changefeed had to be carefully selected when the changefeed was created, so it would align with the Syncpoints of other changefeeds. Starting from v8.2.0, Syncpoints for a changefeed are created as a multiple of the changefeed's `sync-point-interval` configuration. This change lets you align Syncpoints across multiple changefeeds that have the same `sync-point-interval` configuration, simplifying and improving the ability to align multiple downstream clusters.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-upstream-downstream-check.md#notes).

* 功能标题 [#issue号](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    功能描述（需要包含这个功能是什么、在什么场景下对用户有什么价值、怎么用）

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

> * TiDB Lightning，从 v8.2.0 开始当用户设置 strict-format = true，来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需要显式指定行结束符 terminator 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。
> * Import Into SQL 语法，从 v8.2.0 开始，当用户导入 CSV 文件，且指定 split 参数来切分大的 CSV 文件为多个小的 CSV 文件来提升并发和导入性能时，需显式指定行结束符 LINES_TERMINATED_BY 参数的取值为  \r，\n 或 \r\n 。否则可能导致 CSV 文件数据解析异常。

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When using TiDB Lightning to import CSV files, if you set `strict-format = true` to slice a large CSV file into multiple smaller CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

* When using `IMPORT INTO` to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to slice a large CSV file into multiple smaller CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be  `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

Reviewer: @Frank945946

Reviewer 2: LGTM

### Behavior changes

* When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

* When using `IMPORT INTO` to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> * 行为变更 2

Author: ```suggestion
* Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks.
```

| TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `5` to `0`, and the minimum value from `1` to `0`. The value `0` means the automatic mode, which adjusts concurrency based on the configuration of the server. |
| TiDB | [`token-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `18446744073709551615` (64-bit platform) and `4294967295` (32-bit platform) to `1048576`. It means that the number of sessions that can execute requests concurrently can be configured to a maximum of `1048576`. |
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |
| TiFlash | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `marker`. When this option is enabled, all user data in the log is wrapped in `‹ ›`. |

### System tables

### Other changes

> - Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiCDC

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Data Migration (DM)

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiDB Lightning

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

    + TiUP

        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
        - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

## Contributors

We would like to thank the following contributors from the TiDB community:

> - [贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

Author: ```suggestion
- [CabinfeverB](https://github.com/CabinfeverB)
- [DanRoscigno](https://github.com/DanRoscigno) (First-time contributor)
- [ei-sugimoto](https://github.com/ei-sugimoto) (First-time contributor)
- [eltociear](https://github.com/eltociear)
- [jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
- [michaelmdeng](https://github.com/michaelmdeng) (First-time contributor)
- [mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
- [onlyacat](https://github.com/onlyacat)
- [qichengzx](https://github.com/qichengzx) (First-time contributor)
- [SeaRise](https://github.com/SeaRise)
- [shawn0915](https://github.com/shawn0915)
- [shunki-fujita](https://github.com/shunki-fujita) (First-time contributor)
- [tonyxuqqi](https://github.com/tonyxuqqi)
- [wwu](https://github.com/wwu) (First-time contributor)
- [yzhan1](https://github.com/yzhan1)
```

    To maintain compatibility, the original behavior is retained when upgrading from earlier versions to v8.2.0 or later versions. To enable the enhanced privilege control, set the new variable [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) to `ON`.

    For more information, see [user documentation](/tidb-resource-control.md#bind-resource-groups).

### Observability

* Record the reason why an execution plan is not cached [#50618](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/50618) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1819-->

    In some scenarios, you might want to cache most execution plans to save execution overhead and reduce latency. Currently, execution plan caching has some limitations on SQL. Execution plans of some SQL statements cannot be cached. It is difficult to identify the SQL statements that cannot be cached and the corresponding reasons. 

>     Therefore, starting from v8.2.0, a new column is added to the system table [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) to explain the reason why an execution plan cannot be cached, which can help you tune performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Therefore, starting from v8.2.0, a new column `PLAN_CACHE_UNQUALIFIED_LAST_REASON` is added to the system table [`STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`](/statement-summary-tables.md) to explain the reason why an execution plan cannot be cached, which can help you tune performance.
```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - Improve the performance when retrieving data distribution information for simple queries on tables with a large amount of data [#53850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53850) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1561-->
    - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to match with IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through the indices [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1510-->

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ PD

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)
    - note [#issue](链接) @[贡献者 GitHub ID](链接)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Optimize the backup feature, improving backup stability and performance during node restarts, cluster scaling-out, and network jitter when backing up large numbers of tables [#52534](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52534) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@qiancai** <!--1844-->

Author: ```suggestion
        - Optimize the backup feature, improving backup performance and stability during node restarts, cluster scaling-out, and network jitter when backing up large numbers of tables [#52534](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52534) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@qiancai** <!--1844-->
```

---
title: TiDB 8.2.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.2.0.
---

# TiDB 8.2.0 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2024

TiDB version: 8.2.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/quick-start-with-tidb)

8.2.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="3">Reliability and availability</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/system-variables#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800">The parallel HashAgg algorithm of TiDB supports disk spill (GA)</a></td>
    <td>HashAgg is a widely used aggregation operator in TiDB for efficiently aggregating rows with the same field values. TiDB v8.0.0 introduces parallel HashAgg as an experimental feature to further enhance processing speed. When memory resources are insufficient, parallel HashAgg spills temporary sorted data to disk, avoiding potential OOM risks caused by excessive memory usage. This improves query performance while maintaining node stability. In v8.2.0, this feature becomes generally available (GA) and is enabled by default, enabling you to safely configure the concurrency of parallel HashAgg.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.2/tidb-configuration-file#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540">Improve statistics loading efficiency by up to 10 times</a></td>

>     <td>For clusters with a large number of tables and partitions, such as SaaS or PaaS services, improvement in statistics loading efficiency can solve the problem of slow startup of TiDB instances. This improvement reduces performance rollbacks caused by statistics loading failures and improves cluster stability.</td>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    <td>For clusters with a large number of tables and partitions, such as SaaS or PaaS services, improvement in statistics loading efficiency can solve the problem of slow startup of TiDB instances, and increases the rate of success on sync load of statistics. This improvement reduces performance rollbacks caused by statistics loading failures and improves cluster stability.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td><a href=""https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/tidb-resource-control#bind-resource-groups">Introduce privilege control of switching resource groups</a></td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.2/tidb-resource-control#bind-resource-groups">Introduce privilege control of switching resource groups</a></td>
```

    You can configure the combination and priority of load balancing policies through the [`policy`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#policy) configuration item.

    * `resource`: the resource priority policy performs load balancing based on the following priority order: status, health, memory, CPU, location, and connection count.
    * `location`: the location priority policy performs load balancing based on the following priority order: status, location, health, memory, CPU, and connection count.
    * `connection`: the minimum connection count priority policy performs load balancing based on the following priority order: status and connection count.

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-load-balance.md).

### SQL

* TiDB supports the JSON schema validation function [#52779](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52779) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1840-->

>     Before v8.2.0, you need to rely on external tools or customized validation logic for JSON data validation, which increases the complexity of development and maintenance, and reduces development efficiency. Starting from v8.2.0, the `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` function is introduced, which lets you verify the validity of JSON data directly in TiDB, improving the integrity and consistency of the data, and increasing the development efficiency.

Reviewer 6: By using `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` in a `CHECK` constraint it is possible to avoid non conforming data to be inserted instead of checking the data after the fact.

Feel free to change the text or leave it as-is.

Author: @hfxsd PTAL

>     Before v8.2.0, you need to rely on external tools or customized validation logic for JSON data validation, which increases the complexity of development and maintenance, and reduces development efficiency. Starting from v8.2.0, the `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` function is introduced, which lets you verify the validity of JSON data directly in TiDB, improving the integrity and consistency of the data, and increasing the development efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Before v8.2.0, you need to rely on external tools or customized validation logic for JSON data validation, which increases the complexity of development and maintenance, and reduces development efficiency. Starting from v8.2.0, the `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` function is introduced. By using `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` in a `CHECK` constraint, it is possible to avoid non conforming data to be inserted instead of checking the data after the fact. This function lets you verify the validity of JSON data directly in TiDB, improving the integrity and consistency of the data, and increasing the development efficiency.
```

Reviewer 2: How about this?
---
Using `JSON_SCHEMA_VALID()` in a `CHECK` constraint can help prevent non-conforming data from being inserted, rather than checking the data after it has been added. This function...

Reviewer: ok

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-upstream-downstream-check.md#notes).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.1.0 to the current version (v8.2.0). If you are upgrading from v8.0.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* When using TiDB Lightning to import a CSV file, if you set `strict-format = true` to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify `terminator`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

> * When using `IMPORT INTO` to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Author: ```suggestion
* When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
```

* Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks. [#53131](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53131) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) **tw@qiancai** <!--1843-->

### MySQL compatibility

> * Before v8.1.0, executing the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement with the `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` option returns an error because this option is not supported and cannot be parsed. Starting from v8.1.0, TiDB supports parsing and ignoring this option for compatibility with MySQL. [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)

Author: ```suggestion
* Before v8.2.0, executing the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement with the `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` option returns an error because this option is not supported and cannot be parsed. Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB supports parsing and ignoring this option for compatibility with MySQL. [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
```

### System variables

| Variable name  | Change type   | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> | [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760) | Modified  |  Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
> | [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Modified  | Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB does not collect columns of `mediumtext` and `longtext` types by default to avoid potential OOM risks. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_distsql_scan_concurrency-new-in-v760) | Modified  |  Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency of the `scan` operation when executing the `ANALYZE` operation based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
| [`tidb_analyze_skip_column_types`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_skip_column_types-new-in-v720) | Modified  | Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB does not collect columns of `MEDIUMTEXT` and `LONGTEXT` types by default to avoid potential OOM risks. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
```

| [`tidb_enable_historical_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_historical_stats) | Modified   |  Changes the default value from `ON` to `OFF`, which turns off historical statistics to avoid potential stability issues. **tw@hfxsd** <!--1759--> |
| [`tidb_executor_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_executor_concurrency-new-in-v50) | Modified | Adds support for setting the concurrency of the `sort` operator. |

> | [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls whether privilege control is applied to the [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) statement and the [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) optimizer hint. **tw@lilin90** <!--1740--> |
> | [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency of `scan` operations performed when executing internal SQL statements based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
| [`tidb_resource_control_strict_mode`](/system-variables.md#tidb_resource_control_strict_mode-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls whether privilege control is applied to the [`SET RESOURCE GROUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-set-resource-group.md) statement and the [`RESOURCE_GROUP()`](/optimizer-hints.md#resource_groupresource_group_name) optimizer hint. **tw@lilin90** <!--1740--> |
```

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `5` to `0`, and the minimum value from `1` to `0`. The value `0` means the automatic mode, which adjusts concurrency based on the configuration of the server. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `5` to `0`, and the minimum value from `1` to `0`. The value `0` means the automatic mode, which automatically adjusts concurrency based on the configuration of the server. |
```

| TiDB | [`token-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `18446744073709551615` (64-bit platform) and `4294967295` (32-bit platform) to `1048576` to avoid causing TiDB Server OOM when setting it too large. It means that the number of sessions that can execute requests concurrently can be configured to a maximum of `1048576`. |

> | TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `1024` to reduce long-tail latency caused by IO jitter on the TiKV node. It means that the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied is `1024` by default. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `1024` to reduce long-tail latency caused by I/O jitter on the TiKV node. It means that the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied is `1024` by default. |
```

> | TiKV | [`server.grpc-compression-type`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#grpc-compression-type) | Modified | This configuration item now also controls the compression algorithm of response messages sent from TiKV to TiDB. Enabling compression might consume more CPU resources. |
> | TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `1024` to reduce long-tail latency caused by IO jitter on the TiKV node. It means that the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied is `1024` by default. |
| TiKV | [`server.grpc-compression-type`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#grpc-compression-type) | Modified | This configuration item now also controls the compression algorithm of response messages sent from TiKV to TiDB. Enabling compression might consume more CPU resources. |
```

> | TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `1024` to reduce long-tail latency caused by I/O jitter on the TiKV node. It means that the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied is `1024` by default. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v810) | Modified | Changes the default value from `0` to `1024` to reduce long-tail latency caused by I/O jitter on the TiKV node. It means that the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied is `1024` by default. |
```

> | TiFlash | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `marker`. When this option is enabled, all user data in the log is wrapped in `‹ ›`. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| TiFlash | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `marker`. When you set the value to `marker`, all user data in the log is wrapped in `‹ ›`. |
```

### Compiler versions

> To improve the TiFlash development experience, the minimum version of LLVM required to compile and build TiDB has been upgraded from 13.0 to 17.0. If you are a TiDB developer, you need to upgrade the version of your LLVM compiler to ensure a smooth build. [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Author: ```suggestion
* To improve the TiFlash development experience, the minimum version of LLVM required to compile and build TiDB has been upgraded from 13.0 to 17.0. If you are a TiDB developer, you need to upgrade the version of your LLVM compiler to ensure a smooth build. [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

## Deprecated features

* The following features are deprecated starting from v8.2.0:

    * Starting from v8.2.0, the [`enable-replica-selector-v2`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#enable-replica-selector-v2-new-in-v800) configuration item is deprecated. The new version of the Region replica selector is used by default when sending RPC requests to TiKV.

>     * Starting from v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->
>     * Starting from v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <! --1850-->

Author: ```suggestion
    * Starting from v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--concurrency` is deprecated. As an alternative, you can configure the maximum number of concurrent tasks per TiKV node during snapshot restore using [`--tikv-max-restore-concurrency`](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#common-options). **tw@qiancai** <!--1850-->
    * Starting from v8.2.0, the BR snapshot restore parameter `--granularity` is deprecated, and the [coarse-grained Region scattering algorithm](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-cluster-snapshots) is enabled by default. **tw@qiancai** <!--1850-->
```

    * In v8.0.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable to control whether TiDB supports disk spill for the concurrent HashAgg algorithm. In future versions, the [`tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_parallel_hashagg_spill-new-in-v800) system variable will be deprecated.
    * In v7.5.0, TiDB introduces the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable to enable TiDB to merge partition statistics asynchronously to avoid OOM issues. In future versions, partition statistics will be merged asynchronously by default, and the [`tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats`](/system-variables.md#tidb_enable_async_merge_global_stats-new-in-v750) system variable will be deprecated.
    * It is planned to redesign [the auto-evolution of execution plan bindings](/sql-plan-management.md#baseline-evolution) in subsequent releases, and the related variables and behavior will change.

>     * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by `conflict.threshold`, which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.
```

>     * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by `conflict.threshold`, which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

Author: ```suggestion
    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by [`conflict.threshold`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task), which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.
```

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

>     * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.
```

>     * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

Author: ```suggestion
    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.
```

    - Optimize the performance overhead of the `IndexLookUp` operator when looking up a table with a large amount of data (>1024 rows) 优化 `IndexLookUp` [#53871](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53871) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - Remove stores without Regions during MPP load balancing [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

+ TiKV

    - Add the **Compaction Job Size(files)** metric to show the number of SST files involved in a single compaction job [#16837](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16837) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)
    - Enable the [early apply](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v810) feature by default. With this feature enabled, the Raft leader can apply logs after quorum peers have persisted the logs, without waiting for the leader itself to persist the log, reducing the impact of jitter in a few TiKV nodes on write request latency [#16717](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16717) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

>     - Keep Raft logs in cache before Raft log persistence to improve the read performance of logs by followers [#16717](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16717) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
相关 PR 是修复原始 pr 的一个 bug, 不应该出现在 release note 里面

    - Improve the observability of **Raft dropped messages** to locate the root cause of slow writes [#17093](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17093) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - Improve the observability of ingest files latency to troubleshoot cluster latency issues [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - Use a separate thread to clean up Region replicas to ensure stable latency on critical Raft reads and writes [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

>     - Improve the observability of the number of replicas being applied [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Improve the observability of the number of snapshots being applied [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
```

    - Remove redundant aggregation functions for the `HashAgg` operator to reduce computational overhead [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8891) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai: 7 条-->

        - Optimize the backup feature, improving backup performance and stability during node restarts, cluster scaling-out, and network jitter when backing up large numbers of tables [#52534](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52534) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer) **tw@qiancai** <!--1844-->
        - Implement fine-grained checks of TiCDC changefeed during data restore. If the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) is later than the data backup time, the restore operation are not affected, thereby reducing unnecessary wait times and improving user experience [#53131](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53131) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) **tw@qiancai** <!--1843-->

>         - Add several commonly used parameters to the [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) statement and the [`RESTORE`](sql-statements/sql-statement-restore.md) statement, such as `CHECKSUM_CONCURRENCY` [#53040](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53040) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1849-->

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Add several commonly used parameters to the [`BACKUP`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-backup.md) statement and the [`RESTORE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-restore.md) statement, such as `CHECKSUM_CONCURRENCY` [#53040](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53040) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--1849-->
```

    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > Bug fixes> PD - Fix the issue that manually transferring the PD leader might fail [#8225](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8225) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 1 条-->

    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue of query timeout when executing queries on partitioned tables that contains the empty partition [#9024](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9024) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that in the disaggregated storage and compute architecture, null values might be incorrectly returned in queries after adding non-null columns in DDL operations [#9084](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9084) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > Bug fixes> TiFlash - Fix the issue that the `SUBSTRING_INDEX()` function might cause TiFlash to crash in some corner cases [#9116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9116) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - Fix the issue that a large number of duplicates might be read in FastScan mode after importing data via BR or TiDB Lightning [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a large number of duplicate rows might be read in FastScan mode after importing data via BR or TiDB Lightning [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```
I think that using "duplicate rows" is a more accurate description.

* When using `IMPORT INTO` to import a CSV file, if you specify the `SPLIT_FILE` parameter to split a large CSV file into multiple small CSV files to improve concurrency and import performance, you need to explicitly specify the line terminator `LINES_TERMINATED_BY`. The values can be `\r`, `\n` or `\r\n`. Failure to specify a line terminator might result in an exception when parsing the CSV file data. [#37338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37338) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

* Before BR v8.2.0, performing [BR data restore](/br/backup-and-restore-overview.md) on a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks is not supported. Starting from v8.2.0, BR relaxes the restrictions on data restoration for TiCDC: if the BackupTS (the backup time) of the data to be restored is earlier than the changefeed [`CheckpointTS`](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md#checkpointts) (the timestamp that indicates the current replication progress), BR can proceed with the data restore normally. Considering that `BackupTS` is usually much earlier, it can be assumed that in most scenarios, BR supports restoring data for a cluster with TiCDC replication tasks.

### MySQL compatibility

> * Before v8.1.0, executing the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement with the `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` option returns an error because this option is not supported and cannot be parsed. Starting from v8.1.0, TiDB supports parsing and ignoring this option for compatibility with MySQL. [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[https://github.com/dveeden](dveeden)

Author: @dveeden Would you please take a look at the above note for [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305)? Thanks.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Before v8.2.0, executing the [`CREATE USER`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-create-user.md) statement with the `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` option returns an error because this option is not supported and cannot be parsed. Starting from v8.2.0, TiDB supports parsing and ignoring this option for compatibility with MySQL. [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[https://github.com/dveeden](dveeden)
```

| [`tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency`](/system-variables.md#tidb_sysproc_scan_concurrency-new-in-v650) | Modified    | Changes the minimum value from `1` to `0`. When you set it to `0`, TiDB adaptively adjusts the concurrency based on the cluster size.**tw@hfxsd** <!--xxx--> |
|        |                              |      |
|        |                              |      |

### Configuration file parameters

| Configuration file | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `5` to `0`, and the minimum value from `1` to `0`. The value `0` means the automatic mode, which adjusts concurrency based on the configuration of the server. |

> | TiDB | [`token-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `18446744073709551615` (64-bit platform) and `4294967295` (32-bit platform) to `1048576`. It means that the number of sessions that can execute requests concurrently can be configured to a maximum of `1048576`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`token-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `18446744073709551615` (64-bit platform) and `4294967295` (32-bit platform) to `1048576` to avoid causing TiDB Server OOM when setting it too large. It means that the number of sessions that can execute requests concurrently can be configured to a maximum of `1048576`. |
```

> | TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |
| TiKV | [`server.grpc-compression-type`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#grpc-compression-type) | Modified | This configuration item now also controls the compression algorithm for response messages sent from TiKV to TiDB. Enabling compression might consume more CPU resources. | 
```

| TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `5` to `0`, and the minimum value from `1` to `0`. The value `0` means the automatic mode, which adjusts concurrency based on the configuration of the server. |
| TiDB | [`token-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `18446744073709551615` (64-bit platform) and `4294967295` (32-bit platform) to `1048576`. It means that the number of sessions that can execute requests concurrently can be configured to a maximum of `1048576`. |
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |
| TiFlash | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `marker`. When this option is enabled, all user data in the log is wrapped in `‹ ›`. |

### System tables

### Other changes

>     - To improve the TiFlash development experience, the minimum version of LLVM required to compile and build TiDB has been upgraded from 13.0 to 17.0. If you are a TiDB developer, you need to upgrade the version of your LLVM compiler to ensure a smooth build. [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To improve the TiFlash development experience, the minimum version of LLVM required to compile and build TiDB has been upgraded from 13.0 to 17.0. If you are a TiDB developer, you need to upgrade the version of your LLVM compiler to ensure a smooth build. [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@hfxsd: 13 条-->

    - Support parallel execution of [logical DDL statements (General DDL)](/ddl-introduction.md#types-of-ddl-statements). Compared with v8.1.0, when you use 10 sessions to submit different DDL statements concurrently, the performance is improved by 3 to 6 times [#53246](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53246) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - Improve the logic of matching multi-column indexes with expressions like `((a = 1 and b = 2 and c > 3) or (a = 4 and b = 5 and c > 6)) and d > 3` to produce a more accurate `Range` [#41598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41598) @[ghazalfamilyusa](https://github.com/ghazalfamilyusa)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Improve the logic of matching multi-column indexes using expressions like `((a = 1 and b = 2 and c > 3) or (a = 4 and b = 5 and c > 6)) and d > 3` to produce a more accurate `Range` [#41598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41598) @[ghazalfamilyusa](https://github.com/ghazalfamilyusa)
```

    - Optimize the performance of obtaining data distribution information when performing simple queries on tables with large data volumes [#53850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53850) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to be matched to IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through indexing [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)

>     - By batch deleting TiFlash placement rules, improve the processing speed of data GC after performing `TRUNCATE` and `DROP` on partitioned tables [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - By batch deleting TiFlash placement rules, improve the processing speed of data GC after performing the `TRUNCATE` or `DROP` operation on partitioned tables [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

    - The `CREATE USER` SQL statement supports the `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` option for compatibility with MySQL [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[https://github.com/dveeden](dveeden)
    - Upgrade the version of Azure Identity Libraries and Microsoft Authentication Library to enhance security [#53990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53990) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Set the maximum value of `token-limit` to `1048576` to avoid setting it too large and causing TiDB Server OOM [#53312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53312) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Set the maximum value of `token-limit` to `1048576` to avoid causing TiDB Server OOM when setting it too large[#53312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53312) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
```

+ TiKV <!--tw@lilin90: 9 条-->

    - Add the **Compaction Job Size(files)** metric to show the number of SST files involved in a single compaction job [#16837](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16837) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)
    - Enable the [early apply](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v810) feature by default. With this feature enabled, the Raft leader can apply logs after quorum peers have persisted the logs, without waiting for the leader itself to persist the log, reducing the impact of jitter in a few TiKV nodes on write request latency [#16717](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16717) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Keep Raft logs in cache before Raft log persistence to improve the read performance of logs by followers [#16717](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16717) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Improve the observability of **Raft dropped messages** to locate the root cause of slow writes [#17093](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17093) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)

>     - Improve the observability of ingest files to troubleshoot cluster latency issues [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Improve the observability of ingest files latency to troubleshoot cluster latency issues [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

    - Fix the issue that inserting multiple rows in a single statement causes the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column to be discontinuous when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` [#52465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52465) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the format of deprecation warnings [#52515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52515) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that the `TRACE` command is missing in `copr.buildCopTasks` [#53085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53085) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that bindings containing `memory_quota` might not work in subqueries [#53834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53834) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that improper use of metadata locks might lead to writing anomalous data when using the plan cache under certain circumstances [#53634](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53634) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)

+ TiKV <!--tw@lilin90: 以下 8 条-->

>     - Fix the issue that pushing down the `json_array_append panic` function to TiKV causes TiKV to panic [#16930](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16930) @[dbsid](https://github.com/dbsid)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that pushing down the `JSON_ARRAY_APPEND()` function to TiKV causes TiKV to panic [#16930](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16930) @[dbsid](https://github.com/dbsid)
```

    - Fix the issue that the leader does not clean up failed snapshot files in time [#16976](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16976) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - Fix the issue that highly concurrent Coprocessor requests might cause TiKV OOM [#16653](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16653) @[overvenus](https://github.com/overvenus)

>     - Fix the issue that changing the `raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-time` configuration parameter online might cause TiKV to panic [#17066](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17066) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that changing the `raftstore.periodic-full-compact-start-times` configuration item online might cause TiKV to panic [#17066](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17066) @[SpadeA-Tang](https://github.com/SpadeA-Tang)
```

    - Fix the failure of `make docker` and `make docker_test` [#17075](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17075) @[shunki-fujita](https://github.com/shunki-fujita)
    - Fix the issue that the **gRPC request sources duration** metric is displayed incorrectly in the monitoring dashboard [#17133](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17133) @[King-Dylan](https://github.com/King-Dylan)

>     - Fix the issue that setting the gRPC compression method does not take effect on messages sent from TiKV to TiDB [#17176](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17176) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that setting `grpc-compression-type` does not take effect on messages sent from TiKV to TiDB [#17176](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17176) @[ekexium](https://github.com/ekexium)
```

    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复使用 Placement Rules 的情况下，down peer 可能无法恢复的问题 [#7808](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7808) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复取消资源组查询导致大量重试的问题 [#8217](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8217) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复手动切换 PD leader 可能失败的问题 [#8225](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8225) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 1 条-->

    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在含空分区的分区表上执行查询时，可能会超时的问题 [#9024](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9024) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在存算分离架构下，DDL 新增带有 not null 属性的列后，查询可能返回错误的 null 值的问题 [#9084](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9084) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复函数 `SUBSTRING_INDEX()` 可能导致 TiFlash Crash 的问题 [#9116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9116) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - Fix the issue that a large number of duplicates might be read in FastScan mode after importing data via br or TiDB Lightning [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a large number of duplicates might be read in FastScan mode after importing data via BR or TiDB Lightning [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

    - Upgrade the version of Azure Identity Libraries and Microsoft Authentication Library to enhance security [#53990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53990) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Set the maximum value of `token-limit` to `1048576` to avoid setting it too large and causing TiDB Server OOM [#53312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53312) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
    - Improve column pruning for MPP execution plans to improve TiFlash MPP execution performance [#52133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52133) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - Optimize the performance overhead of the `IndexLookUp` operator when looking up a table with a large amount of data (>1024 rows) 优化 `IndexLookUp` [#53871](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53871) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 改进提升> TiDB - 在 MPP 负载均衡时移除不包含任何 Region 的 Store [#52313](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52313) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

+ TiKV <!--tw@lilin90: 9 条-->

>     - Add a metric to show the number of SST files involved in a single compaction job [#16837](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16837) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Add a metric `Compaction Job Size(files)` to show the number of SST files involved in a single compaction job [#16837](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16837) @[zhangjinpeng87](https://github.com/zhangjinpeng87)
```

    - Enable the [early apply](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v810) feature by default. With this feature enabled, the Raft leader can apply logs after quorum peers have persisted the logs, without waiting for the leader itself to persist the log, reducing the impact of jitter in a few TiKV nodes on write request latency [#16717](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16717) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)

>     - Introduce a precheck mechanism before generating a snapshot to ensure that the snapshot is sent only when the follower is ready, improving the effectiveness of snapshot generation [#15972](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/15972) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

Reviewer 2: Ref: https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/17227
```suggestion
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai: 5 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复由于 `EndKey` 为空导致恢复事务 KV 集群失败的问题 [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 PD 连接失败导致日志备份 advancer owner 所在的 TiDB 可能崩溃的问题 [#52597](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52597) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份在 advancer owner 发生迁移后可能被暂停的问题 [#53561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53561) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在恢复过程中，由于多层重试导致 BR 无法正确识别错误的问题 [#54053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54053) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Fix the issue that the connection used to fetch TiKV configurations might not be closed [#52595](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52595) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

>        - Fix the issue that the `TestStoreRemoved` test case is unstable [#52791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52791) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>        - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes during PITR restore [#52628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52628) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
>        - Fix the inefficiency issue in scanning DDL jobs during incremental backups [#54139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54139) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>        - Fix the issue that the backup performance during checkpoint backups is affected due to interruptions in seeking Region leaders [#17168](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17168) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the `TestStoreRemoved` test case is unstable [#52791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52791) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes during point-in-time recovery (PITR) [#52628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52628) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Fix the inefficiency issue in scanning DDL jobs during incremental backups [#54139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54139) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - Fix the issue that the backup performance during checkpoint backups is affected due to interruptions in seeking Region leaders [#17168](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17168) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

| TiDB | [`stats-load-concurrency`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#stats-load-concurrency-new-in-v540) | Modified | Changes the default value from `5` to `0`, and the minimum value from `1` to `0`. The value `0` means the automatic mode, which adjusts concurrency based on the configuration of the server. |
| TiDB | [`token-limit`](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) | Modified | Changes the maximum value from `18446744073709551615` (64-bit platform) and `4294967295` (32-bit platform) to `1048576`. It means that the number of sessions that can execute requests concurrently can be configured to a maximum of `1048576`. |
| TiKV | [`max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#max-apply-unpersisted-log-limit-new-in-v820) | Newly added | Controls the maximum number of committed but not persisted Raft logs that can be applied。 The default value is `1024`. |
| TiFlash | [`security.redact_info_log`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#configure-the-tiflashtoml-file) | Modified | Introduces a new value option `marker`. When this option is enabled, all user data in the log is wrapped in `‹ ›`. |

### System tables

### Other changes

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    - Upgrade the default compilation toolchain to LLVM 17 [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

```

>     - Upgrade the default compilation toolchain to LLVM 17 [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - To improve the stability of TiDB, the minimum version of LLVM required to compile and build TiDB has been upgraded from 13.0 to 17.0. If you are a TiDB developer, you need to upgrade the version of your LLVM compiler to ensure a smooth build. [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
```

    - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to be matched to IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through indexing [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
    - By batch deleting TiFlash placement rules, improve the processing speed of data GC after performing `TRUNCATE` and `DROP` on partitioned tables [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - The `CREATE USER` SQL statement supports the `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` option for compatibility with MySQL [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[https://github.com/dveeden](dveeden)
    - Upgrade the version of Azure Identity Libraries and Microsoft Authentication Library to enhance security [#53990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53990) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Set the maximum value of `token-limit` to `1048576` to avoid setting it too large and causing TiDB Server OOM [#53312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53312) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)

>     - Set the TLS configuration item `InsecureSkipVerify` to `false` to enable the client to request that the CN in the server's certificate matches the client's expected hostname [#53357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53357) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - 增加 Raft dropped messages 事件的可观测性，以便定位写入慢的根本原因 [#17093](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17093) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - 增加对 ingest file 的延迟可观测性，以便排查集群的延迟问题 [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 利用单独的线程来进行副本清理工作，保证 Raft 读写关键路径的延迟稳定 [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - 提升正在进行 apply 的副本数的可观测性 [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

+ PD <!--tw@lilin90: 2 条-->

    - 优化提升 Region 心跳处理的性能 [#7897](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7897) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - pd-ctl 支持使用 byte 或 query 维度来进行热点 Region 查询 [#7369](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7369) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 5 条-->

    - Reduce lock conflicts under highly concurrent data read operations and optimize short query performance [#9125](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9125) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

>     - Upgrade the default compilation toolchain to LLVM 17 [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that the `REFERENCED_TABLE_SCHEMA` field in the `INFORMATION_SCHEMA.KEY_COLUMN_USAGE` table is displayed incorrectly [#52350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52350) @[wd0517](https://github.com/wd0517)
    - Fix the issue that inserting multiple rows in a single statement causes the `AUTO_INCREMENT` column to be discontinuous when `AUTO_ID_CACHE=1` [#52465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52465) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - Fix the format of deprecation warnings [#52515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52515) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - Fix the issue that the `TRACE` command is missing in `copr.buildCopTasks` [#53085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53085) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)
    - Fix the issue that bindings containing `memory_quota` might not work in subqueries [#53834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53834) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that improper use of metadata locks might lead to writing anomalous data when using the plan cache under certain circumstances [#53634](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53634) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
```

    - 修复通过 br 或 tidb-lightning 导入数据后， FastScan 模式下可能读到大量重复数据的问题 [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR) <!--tw@qiancai: 5 条-->

        - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复由于 `EndKey` 为空导致恢复事务 KV 集群失败的问题 [#52574](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52574) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复 PD 连接失败导致日志备份 advancer owner 所在的 TiDB 可能崩溃的问题 [#52597](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52597) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份在 advancer owner 发生迁移后可能被暂停的问题 [#53561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53561) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在恢复过程中，由于多层重试导致 BR 无法正确识别错误的问题 [#54053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54053) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)

>         - 确保获取 tikv 配置的连接一定会被关闭 [#52595](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52595) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
>         - 修复不稳定测试用例 `TestStoreRemoved` [#52791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52791) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
>         - 在 pitr 恢复中, 检查目标集群是否存在 tiflash 副本, 如果有就直接失败恢复作业 [#52628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52628) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
>         - 提升 incremental backup 中扫描 ddl 作业的效率 [#54139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54139) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
>         - 修复断点备份查找 region leader 中断导致的性能问题 [#17168](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17168) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the connection used to fetch TiKV configurations might not be closed [#52595](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52595) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
       - Fix the issue that the `TestStoreRemoved` test case is unstable [#52791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52791) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
       - Fix the issue that TiFlash crashes during PITR restore [#52628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52628) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
       - Fix the inefficiency issue in scanning DDL jobs during incremental backups [#54139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54139) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
       - Fix the issue that backup performance during checkpoint backups is affected due to interruptions in seeking Region leaders [#17168](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17168) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
```

    * The TiDB Lightning parameter [`conflict.max-record-rows`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md#tidb-lightning-task) is planned for deprecation in a future release and will be subsequently removed. This parameter will be replaced by `conflict.threshold`, which means that the maximum number of conflicting records is consistent with the maximum number of conflicting records that can be tolerated in a single import task.

* The following features are planned for removal in future versions:

    * Starting from v8.0.0, TiDB Lightning deprecates the [old version of conflict detection](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-physical-import-mode-usage.md#the-old-version-of-conflict-detection-deprecated-in-v800) strategy for the physical import mode, and enables you to control the conflict detection strategy for both logical and physical import modes via the [`conflict.strategy`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter. The [`duplicate-resolution`](/tidb-lightning/tidb-lightning-configuration.md) parameter for the old version of conflict detection will be removed in a future release.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@hfxsd: 13 条-->

>     - 改进形如 `((a = 1 and b = 2 and c > 3) or (a = 4 and b = 5 and c > 6)) and d > 3` 的表达式匹配多列索引的逻辑，使其能生成更加精准的 `Range`。 [#41598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41598) @[ghazalfamilyusa](https://github.com/ghazalfamilyusa)
>     - 支持在 DML 语句的 SELECT 子句中使用查询范围生效的 Optimizer Hints。 [#53834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53834) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
>     - 改进形如 `(a, b) > (1, 2)` 的表达式的处理机制，使其能够生成对应索引上的 `Range`。 [#41598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41598) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
>     - 当 SQL 满足特定条件时，支持在内表包含 Aggregation 时使用 Index Join。 [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520)
>     - Improve the performance when retrieving data distribution information for simple queries on tables with a large amount of data [#53850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53850) @[you06](https://github.com/you06) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1561-->
>     - The aggregated result set can be used as an inner table for IndexJoin, allowing more complex queries to match with IndexJoin, thus improving query efficiency through the indices [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1510-->
>     - 通过批量删除 TiFlash placement rule 的方式，提升 truncate、 drop 分区表后数据 GC 的处理速度 [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
>     - 增加了创建用户时对选项 `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` 的支持 [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[https://github.com/dveeden](dveeden)
>     - 升级第三方库 Azure 的版本，增强了安全性 [#53990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53990) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
>     - 将 `token-limit` 的最大值设置为 1048576, 避免设置过大导致 TiDB-Server OOM [#53312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53312) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
>     - 将 tls 配置项 `InsecureSkipVerify` 设置为 false，打开后客户端将要求服务器证书中的 CN 与客户端期望的主机名匹配 [#53358](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/53358) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
>     - 改进了对于 MPP 执行计划的列裁剪功能，以提升 TiFlash MPP 的执行性能 [#52133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52133) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
>     - 优化 `IndexLookUp` 算子在回表数据量较多（大于 1024 行）时的性能开销 [#53871](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53871) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 支持并行执行[逻辑 DDL 语句 (General DDL)](/ddl-introduction.md#ddl-语句类型简介)。相比 v8.1.0，在使用 10 个会话并发提交不同 DDL 语句的场景下，性能有 3~6 倍的提升 [#53246](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53246) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - 改进形如 `((a = 1 and b = 2 and c > 3) or (a = 4 and b = 5 and c > 6)) and d > 3` 的表达式匹配多列索引的逻辑，使其能生成更加精准的 `Range` [#41598](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/41598) @[ghazalfamilyusa](https://github.com/ghazalfamilyusa)
    - 优化对大数据量的表进行简单查询时获取数据分布信息的性能 [#53850](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53850) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)  **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1561-->
    - 聚合的结果集能够作为 IndexJoin 的内表，使更多的复杂查询可以匹配到 IndexJoin，从而可以通过索引提升查询效率 [#37068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/37068) @[elsa0520](https://github.com/elsa0520) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1510-->
    - 通过批量删除 TiFlash placement rule 的方式，提升对分区表执行 `TRUNCATE`、`DROP` 后数据 GC 的处理速度 [#54068](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54068) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - 创建用户的 SQL 语句 `CREATE USER` 支持 `PASSWORD REQUIRE CURRENT DEFAULT` 选项，以和 MySQL 兼容 [#53305](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53305) @[https://github.com/dveeden](dveeden)
    - 升级第三方库 Azure 的版本，增强了安全性 [#53990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53990) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 将 `token-limit` 的最大值设置为 `1048576`，避免设置过大导致 TiDB Server OOM [#53312](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53312) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832)
    - 将 TLS 配置项 `InsecureSkipVerify` 设置为 `false`，打开后客户端将要求服务器证书中的 CN 与客户端期望的主机名匹配 [#53357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53357) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716)
    - 改进对于 MPP 执行计划的列裁剪功能，以提升 TiFlash MPP 的执行性能 [#52133](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52133) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87)
    - 优化 `IndexLookUp` 算子在回表数据量较多（大于 1024 行）时的性能开销 [#53871](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53871) @[crazycs520](https://github.com/crazycs520)
```

    - 在 raft 日志持久化之前，将 raft 日志保留在缓存中提升 follower 对日志的读取性能 [#16717](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16717) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - 增加 drop raft message 事件的可观测性，方便定位写入慢的 root cause [#17093](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17093) @[Connor1996](https://github.com/Connor1996)
    - 增加对 ingest file 的延迟可观测性，方便排查集群的延迟问题 [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
    - 利用单独的线程来进行副本清理工作，保证 raft 读写关键路径的延迟稳定 [#16001](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/16001) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)
    - 提升正在进行 apply 的副本数的可观测性 [#17078](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17078) @[hbisheng](https://github.com/hbisheng)

+ PD <!--tw@lilin90: 2 条-->

    - 优化提升 Region 心跳处理的性能 [#7897](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7897) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx) @[JmPotato](https://github.com/JmPotato)
    - pd-ctl 支持使用 byte 或 query 维度来进行热点 Region 查询 [#7369](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7369) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 5 条-->

>     - 减少数据高并发读取下的锁冲突，优化短查询性能 [#9125](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9125) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
>     - 升级默认编译工具链到 llvm 17 [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
>     - 消除 `Join` 算子中对于 Join Key 的冗余拷贝 [#9057](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9057) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
>     - 将 `HashAgg` 算子中转换两级哈希表的过程并行化 [#8956](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8956) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
>     - 为 `HashAgg` 算子移除冗余的聚合函数以减少计算开销 [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8891) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 减少数据高并发读取下的锁冲突，优化短查询性能 [#9125](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9125) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - 升级默认编译工具链到 LLVM 17 [#7193](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7193) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - 消除 `Join` 算子中对于 Join Key 的冗余拷贝 [#9057](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9057) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - 将 `HashAgg` 算子中转换两级哈希表的过程并行化 [#8956](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8956) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi)
    - 为 `HashAgg` 算子移除冗余的聚合函数以减少计算开销 [#8891](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/8891) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge)
```

    - 修复了分布式加索引时设置 `max-index-length` 时 TiDB panic 问题 [#53281](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53281) @[zimulala](https://github.com/zimulala)
    - 修复了意外创建非法的 `Decimal(0,0)` 列类型的问题 [#53779](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53779) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复了使用 `current_date` 作为列默认值时，查询结果错误的问题 [#53746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53746) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - 修复 `ALTER DATABASE ... SET TIFLASH REPLICA` 语句会给 `SEQUENCE` 表添加 TiFlash 副本的问题 [#51990](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/51990) @[jiyfhust](https://github.com/jiyfhust)
    - 修复 `information_schema.key_column_usage` 表中 `referenced_table_schema` 字段显示错误的问题 [#52350](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52350) @[wd0517](https://github.com/wd0517)
    - 修复 `AUTO_ID_CACHE` = 1 时，单条语句插入多行会产生空洞的问题 [#52465](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52465) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao)
    - 修复弃用警告的格式 [#52515](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52515) @[dveeden](https://github.com/dveeden)
    - 修复 `trace` 命令在 `copr.buildCopTasks` 中丢失的问题 [#53085](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53085) @[time-and-fate](https://github.com/time-and-fate)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复包含 `memory_quota` 的绑定在子查询中可能不生效的问题 [#53834](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53834) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)

```

    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复使用 Placement Rules 的情况下，down peer 可能无法恢复的问题 [#7808](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/7808) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复取消资源组查询导致大量重试的问题 [#8217](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8217) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> PD - 修复手动切换 PD leader 可能失败的问题 [#8225](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8225) @[HuSharp](https://github.com/HuSharp)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 1 条-->

    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在含空分区的分区表上执行查询时，可能会超时的问题 [#9024](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9024) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
    - (dup): release-7.5.2.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复在存算分离架构下，DDL 新增带有 not null 属性的列后，查询可能返回错误的 null 值的问题 [#9084](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9084) @[Lloyd-Pottiger](https://github.com/Lloyd-Pottiger)
    - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> TiFlash - 修复函数 `SUBSTRING_INDEX()` 可能导致 TiFlash Crash 的问题 [#9116](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9116) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)

>     - 修复通过 br 或 tidb-lightning 导入数据后， FastScan 模式下可能读到大量重复数据的问题 [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - 修复通过 br 或 TiDB Lightning 导入数据后，FastScan 模式下可能读到大量重复数据的问题 [#9118](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9118) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin)
```

        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复日志备份在 advancer owner 发生迁移后可能被暂停的问题 [#53561](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/53561) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - (dup): release-6.5.10.md > 错误修复> Tools> Backup & Restore (BR) - 修复在恢复过程中，由于多层重试导致 BR 无法正确识别错误的问题 [#54053](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54053) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - 确保获取 tikv 配置的连接一定会被关闭 [#52595](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52595) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - 修复不稳定测试用例 `TestStoreRemoved` [#52791](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52791) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - 在 pitr 恢复中, 检查目标集群是否存在 tiflash 副本, 如果有就直接失败恢复作业 [#52628](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/52628) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - 提升 incremental backup 中扫描 ddl 作业的效率 [#54139](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/54139) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)
        - 修复断点备份查找 region leader 中断导致的性能问题 [#17168](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17168) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@hfxsd: 2 条-->

>         - 修复 Grafana 监控中的 **Kafka Outgoing Bytes** 面板显示不准确的问题  [#10777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10777) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
>         - 修复在多节点环境下进行大量 Update 操作时，反复重启 Changefeed 可能导致的数据不一致问题。 [#11219](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11219) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - 修复 Grafana 监控中的 **Kafka Outgoing Bytes** 面板显示不准确的问题 [#10777](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/10777) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - 修复在多节点环境下进行大量 `UPDATE` 操作时，反复重启 Changefeed 可能导致的数据不一致问题 [#11219](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11219) @[lidezhu](https://github.com/lidezhu)
```
